>> Brian Holt: Let's talk about
containers, we went through and
we did crafting containers by hand.
Now you are armed with the knowledge of
what a container is, what it's doing,
what it's solving for you.
And now you're never gonna have
to do anything I just showed you.
Which is both cool, cuz you can
see here I had to have notes for
all that cuz I can't remember
the stuff off the top of my head.
But I find this useful just because,
whenever I don't know how my tools work,
I tend to kind of resent them a little bit
because they add complexity to my life.
But when I understand what they're doing
for me and what I no longer have to do
because the tool is doing it for me, then
I tend to really like my tools, right?
Because I know what I'm
getting myself out of.
>> Brian Holt: So, we're gonna actually
start diving more into depth into Docker,
Docker-specific features.
A bunch of this stuff will apply
to other container runtimes and
container orchestration frameworks.
But we're gonna do it all through
the lens of Docker because it's by
far the most popular.
>> Brian Holt: So,
we're gonna hop into Docker images here.
So the first thing that you wanna
to know about containers is
a premade container that
you can use is an image.
You can think of this
container like class,
if we're using programming terms, right?
It's like a reusable structure that
you can instantiate many of, and
you would call this an image, right?
>> Brian Holt: So basically, what it is,
is you create a container, and
then you just dump out the state.
And that state that you have dumped
out is what the image is, right?
So, we've been using one already, right?
That ubuntu:jammy is an image
that we got off of Docker Hub.
So it's probably useful for
you to just go to hub.docker.com.
If you're familiar with NPM or any one
of those package manager frameworks,
Docker Hub is what that is for containers.
So you can see here,
there is a container for everything.
There's one for Nginx, there's one for
Postgres, there's one for
Python, there's one for LangChain,
there's one for TensorFlow.
If you can guess a language or
a framework,
I guarantee you someone has
written a Docker container for it.
Kind of like NPM, right,
but just for containers.
Which is great, because,
for the most part,
this means if you have
a some specific need,
this is actually extremely applicable
to what I'm doing now with Docusaurus.
I'm rebuilding the docs for
the company that I work at.
Turns out there's already
a container image for that,
I don't have to go build that,
I can just go ahead and use theirs.
So a lot of what we're gonna be doing
is going to be based of these base
containers.
And then we're gonna add little
modifications to suit our needs to it.
Let's go ahead and
do a Docker image without Docker,
just to show you that
nothing Docker is doing for
you is really super interesting
from that perspective.
So I want you to copy and run this.
You can go ahead and get rid of
everything that we have done previously,
which I'm gonna to just
exit out of all of these.
Just so you know, this will destroy all
the work that we did, that's okay, right?
>> Brian Holt: And if I say docker ps, and
now I have no containers running,
so that's cool.
Okay, so I'm gonna run this docker run,
that's gonna run an image,
the -ti, as you might remember,
is interactive.
This -v is mounting a volume, that
we're gonna talk about that at the end.
But suffice to say, this is going
to connect to our core, our host
Docker instance so that we can use its
containers inside of our container.
And then we're gonna, Docker makes
a container which has Docker in it.
I know that's a little wild, but what
we're gonna do with that is we're going to
pull in containers off of Docker Hub and
then we're going to start
using them inside of Docker.
>> Brian Holt: So, pwd, I'm inside of
a container, and if I say cat etc/issue,
cuz I'm always curious of what
version of Linux they're using.
You can see I'm in Alpine Linux, which
I actually was not super expecting, but
cool, it doesn't matter, right?
We'll talk about Alpine
here very shortly as well.
>> Brian Holt: And what we're gonna do
is we're gonna run just a normal stock.
We're gonna run another Alpine container
inside of our Alpine container,
which is gonna just be super fun.
run --rm -dit --name my-alpine,
you can call it whatever you want.
I just prefix a lot of stuff with
my- just to kind of show you
that it's a name that I'm adding,
it doesn't mean anything in and of itself.
And we're gonna do alpine, which is
the name of distribution of Linux,
just like Ubuntu or Arch or
RHEL or something like that.
So 3.19.1, and then we're gonna run shell,
which is like Bash, but
it's just a shell, right?
So now, this was an Alpine container,
so I was in macOS, and
then I ran an Alpine container
that had Docker in it.
And now inside of that,
I am running an Alpine container, so
I am running a container within
a container on my macOS system.
So here,
>> Brian Holt: I think I need
to,
>> Brian Holt: dockercontainer.tar
my-alpine, I think I have to
do this from outside of it,
I don't know, has that worked right there,
it did, okay.
So what I did here is,
docker export allows you to just
dump out whatever's in an image.
I did that and I outputted it into
a dockercontainer.tar, which,
a tar is just like a zip, right?
But tar, it's not compressed,
it's just tarred together, okay.
And then I'm gonna make
a directory called container-root.
>> Brian Holt: And then I'm gonna do,
I have to look up the the detarring
thing every single time,
tar xf dockercontainer.tar
-C container-root/.
And now if I look in that container root,
you'll see that I have an entire file
system that I grabbed off of Docker Hub.
This is just a normal Alpine container,
and lo and
behold, this stuff should all
look very familiar to you.
So we're gonna unshare all
of that stuff and say blah.
I probably could have said shell is there
again as well, but ash is the name of
the shell that Alpine uses, which is
like bash, but just slightly different.
And mount this, blah,
mount that, blah, and
mount this, blah.
Now I could go in and I could do all the
cgroups again, I'm gonna spare you all of
those details, don't really need
to think too much about it.
But now, what have I done here?
I pulled a container off of Docker Hub,
an Alpine container,
I then did an unshared environment,
I change rooted into it.
I mounted all of its namespaces, and
I could go do all the cgroup stuff,
just fathom for a moment that we did.
I ran a Docker image without Docker,
right?
I used all that kind of stuff, and if I
was running this all on a Linux computer,
which, obviously,
this is not a Linux computer.
I wouldn't have had to do all the Docker
magic to make all that happen.
We wouldn't need Docker at all, right?
We could just run these images without
using any sort of the Docker tools, right?
Just using unshare,
using change root, and using cgroups.
So this is just kind of to prove
the point to you that you don't need
Docker in that sense.
Docker is just a very convenient tool to
get all these containers running for you.
So again, just to kind of make sure
we're all on the same page here,
that's why, this -dit was detached,
that's why we weren't necessary.
So now we're inside of a handcrafted
container inside of the Docker
container inside of macOS.
We're not actually inside that
other container, it is running, so
if I say docker ps over here, you can see
that I have my-alpine which is running.
The only reason that we had that
running was so that we could dump out
the state of it, so then we could
go ahead and use it, make sense?
>> Brian Holt: Pretty cool, right?
Again, you can do all this stuff yourself,
you don't need Docker,
you don't need domain, right?
But in this particular case,
Docker is extremely helpful, and
you should definitely use it, all right?
We're gonna exit out of that,
exit out of that,
and then we can say docker kill my-alpine.
>> Brian Holt: And
now we have nothing running in Docker.
So, again, Docker does so much more for
you than just pulling images and
running them for you.
Though I'm gonna argue that that core
functionality, no matter how simple it is,
is really what you care most about.
It does networking and
all that other stuff, but
yeah, you really could
get around using it.